# E-Commerce Website

This repository is for the initial prototype of an
e-commerce application that will be used in a real business
setting.

### Project Background

Apologies for the lack of professional code quality, this
is my first attempt at building usable software. I decided
to build this project for my father. He mentioned wanting
to build a specialized E-commerce site for his retail
store, and I volunteered for the task. I had just graduated
this past May, and given to my lack of internships,
worthy projects, and the state of the job market, diving
right into a job search didn't seem like the most optimal
next step.

Without attempting to fix for one of those three issues,
I would simply be attempting to brute force my way to a hire,
and I refuse to do that. I didn't study Computer Science
for the sake of employment alone; I studied it
because of the seemingly endless possibilities
and pathways it opens. So I decided on building this project.

### Did I Use AI?

I did use the assistance of AI, specifically LLMs, for
debugging and ideation. There was a point
where I did consider and actually incorporated the use of
a code-specialized LLM, (i.e., Codex).

I decided on not moving along with it after the first pull
request due to me wanting to build actual experience and
understanding. This would be tremendously harder to do
with code generation, as the code produced is well beyond
the scope of which I've written before (or even read and
understood). I also found it a bit too convenient for my
liking.
I'm not a "vibe coder" and I didn't decide to choose
Computer Science as one of my passions to "vibe" my way
though software engineering. Thus I decided to struggle
and build the code myself. So I committed to using AI as a
debugging assistant, verifier/corrector of my intuition,
and a tutor/reference when working with a technology
new to me or one with poor documentation.

### Tech Stack

1. Database: Supabase
2. Frontend: React.js/Next.js
3. Languages: Typescript and PostgreSQL
4. UI/UX: shadcn components
5. Styling: Tailwind
6. Payment API: Stripe (planned; hasn't been implemented)

I decided to keep the stack as barebones as possible.
Supabase does a tremendous job at being a complete
backend. After doing an intensive, 2 week long deep dive
into the PSQL Database Management System and PostgreSQL,
I was able to leverage Postgres' flexibility
to a much higher degree after studying those basics,
rather then having to rely on the useful,
but often non sufficient supabase queries.
I was able to create views, indexes, and use psql
to interact with the database directly instead of
relying on supabase's GUI and AI assistant. I wrote my own
database procedures and used them though supabase's
rpc implementation.

For the frontend, I chose Next.js due to
my experience with React and the added benefit of SSR of
products for SEO reasons. I used shadcn/ui components
throughout the entire project because I truly dislike
debugging UI and why reinvent the wheel? I must confess,
most of the UI of the home, product and cart pages
was generated by ChatGPT. I did handle the creation of the entirety
of the shop page. I felt comfortable doing so
however, due to the fact that my goal isn't to be a
designer; but rather, to engineer an end-to-end system.
